Welcome back everyone to this lecture where we're going to be cutting through and explaining the solutions
for the second assessment test in this lecture we're going to work through the solutions and we'll go
back and forth between P.S. admin and the google doc with the questions.
Keep in mind if you're just looking for the written out solutions you can check those out on the link
in the previous lecture.
OK.
Let's get started by heading over to P.G. ataman.
All right.
Here I am in P.G. Ataman and I also have the assessment test opened up so sequel assessment test number
two which is questions and expect the results in this there's a link to the solutions which you can
visit and what we're going to do in this lecture just code and explain out the solutions.
So it starts off pretty basic so we won't do a whole lot of explanations for the first couple of questions
and then we'll start explaining as they get more complex.
So the first question is how can you retrieve all the information from the C D that facilities table.
So hopefully you're able to get this one quite simply by saying come to PGI admin select everything
from C D the facilities.
And remember we needed to include that C D because the facilities table is under the C D schema not
the public schema.
So we run this and we can see here we have the facility idea name member cost guess cost initial outlay
and monthly maintenance.
Next question was you want to print out a list of all the facilities and their costs to members.
So we want to retrieve a list of only facility names and costs.
That's simply coming back to PJM admin and instead of selecting everything we'll just go ahead and grab
the facility name and the member cost which we can do by saying name comma member cost.
Go ahead and run this.
And there we have it.
So we see back the various names the facilities like tennis courts Badman courts massage rooms and as
well as how much they cost for the members.
Question number three is how can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members.
So if we take a look back at the results from the previous question note that not all of them actually
charge a fee.
Some of them have a zero cost for members which means we want to go ahead and add a where statement
which filters out member costs that are basically zero.
So we want to see where the member cost happens to be greater than zero.
And if we run this now we get back those five facilities and it's up to you if you want to select all
the columns or not.
But essentially we're just looking for the five facilities where there's actually a cost to the member
question number four and this one starts getting a little tricky because there's some math involved
is how can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members.
And that fee is less than one fiftieth of the monthly maintenance cost.
And we want you to return the facility I.D. facility name member cost and monthly maintenance of the
facilities in questions and you should actually just be two rows massage room one in massage room two.
So how can we actually do this.
Well first let's start by taking a look at what we already have we actually want to select more than
just a name and member column.
We also want to select the facility I.D. and we wanted to select the monthly maintenance.
So say monthly maintenance.
Make sure we spell this right from seeds facilities.
And so far remember cost is greater than zero.
So if you run this make sure we say monthly that we go and here we have the facility I.D. where we actually
have a cost for this.
Now what we want to compare is the one fiftieth of the monthly maintenance costs.
So notice here we have the monthly maintenance two hundred three thousand etc. and the member cost.
So what we're looking for is for this fee for the member to be less than one fiftieth of the monthly
maintenance cost.
So the way we can do that is by filtering out.
So and we're gonna have another condition where we want the monthly maintenance divided by 50 and we
have to do this with a floating point number so fifty point zero in order to get back that full decimal.
So we're saying monthly maintenance.
Make sure we spell this right again.
There we go divided by 50.
So it's essentially one fiftieth of the maintenance cost and we want to compare where that member cost
is less than monthly maintenance divided by 50.
And if you just run it like this you should get back the massager in one in massage room 2.
So note here again I'm dividing monthly maintenance by 50 in order to get the one fiftieth of the maintenance
cost.
You always want to be careful in dealing with fractions in other way you could have done this is by
saying one divided by fifty point zero parentheses times monthly maintenance.
And if you run that make sure princes are balanced when you run this.
There you go run that you should get back the same results.
So again different ways to do this.
Well you want to make sure is that your order of operations correct.
You don't want to actually do one divided by 50 times monthly maintenance because that would set 50
times monthly maintenance as a denominator OK so that's number four.
Let's move on to number five.
OK.
Question number five was how can you produce a list of all facilities with the word tennis in their
name.
And here we have both tennis courts and table tennis which means I'm going to need to use the like operator
in order to format tennis so it fits anywhere within that string of the name.
So we'll come back to PGA admin.
Let's go ahead and select everything from C.D. facilities where name.
And this is where we have a couple of options.
If you don't want to care about capitalization you can say I like and then we'll go ahead and have tennis
and then the percent signs allow us to say any number of characters before tennis and any number of
characters after tennis.
So if I run this I can see I get back.
Tennis court one tennis court two and table tennis.
If you're using like then recall that capitalization does matter there and we have to have a capital
T for tennis run that and you'll get back the same results.
OK let's move on to the next question next question is how can you retrieve the details of facilities
of I.D. one in five.
And it says try to do it without using the or operator.
Let's go ahead and show you how you would do if the or operator and then how you can do it without using
the or operator.
So we'll come back here.
One way to do this is by simply saying select everything from city facilities where and then we can
say where facility I.D. is equal to one or facility I.D. is equal to five.
So if you run that you get back these correct results tennis court to a massage room to the way to do
it without or is by using the in operator.
And you make a list so you can say where facility I.D. is in one common five.
And so that's basically not checking against this list.
And if you run this you get back the same results.
What's nice about this is that you can easily expand this to any number of I.D. by just adding it to
this list instead of having to add a complete or statement.
Again now let's move on to question number seven which is how can you produce a list of members who
joined after the start of September 2012 returned the member I.D. surname first name and join date of
the members in question and the expected results is 10 rows and not all of them are shown here below.
This little figure but basically there to show you the kind of results you should expect.
So how do we do this.
It's come back to P.G. ataman.
Let's go ahead and select those columns that mentioned they wanted a member I.D. column surname the
first name and the join date and then we're gonna grab this from the see the members table and here
we're going to specify where and they wanted where the join date is greater than or equal to.
And then the formatting that table has is Year Month date.
So we want people that joined either on or after September 1st 2012.
And if you're on this you should get back those 10 people.
OK.
Next question is we want to know how can you produce an ordered list of the first 10 surnames in the
members table the list must not contain duplicates.
And we'll go ahead and let you include guest as a last name.
So within the first one's enough medical order.
The very last one will be guest.
So we'll go ahead and let you include that.
So how can we do this.
Well we're gonna do here is simply use an order by and then limit to 10 so we'll come over here and
let's go ahead and say select will say surname
from C. The members order by surname.
So if we just run this by itself we'll get back everything in order.
Now notice that there are duplicates notices to ferals.
And if we come over here there's two bakers.
So the way we can't remove those is by saying distinct surnames.
So basically only the unique surnames.
So now that we run that that we'll get rid of the duplicates and recall that we want to limit this to
just 10 so say limit to 10 run this.
And now we have those top 10 if for some reason you didn't want to include guest you could easily use
some sort of where condition to say we're not equal to guest.
OK coming back to the assessment questions Number nine is you'd like to get the sign up date of your
last member.
So how can you retrieve this information.
Essentially what is the very last person who signed up.
When did they sign up.
The way we can do this.
We come over here to PGE admin is by actually using the max keyword or function.
So if we say select join date from C. these members and we run this notice here we have all the dates.
There's a couple of different ways we could do this.
We could order these either in ascending or descending order depending if you wanted the first number
the sign up or the last number to sign up and then just run a limit 1.
Or we could do is say Max on join date run this and you would get back basically the most recent person
to have signed up if you want the first person to have ever signed up then you would choose the minimum
date you run that and you can see this is the minimum person essentially the very first person to sign
up.
So that's the way you can use minute max on dates.
Otherwise if you're having trouble with this you could have done an order by and then just said limit
one to get either the very first person or the very last person depending on what you were thinking
or what the question was asking for.
Okay let's move back to the assessment next.
You want to produce accounts of the number of facilities that have a cost to guess of 10 or more.
So that one should be pretty easy going to come back here to the select statement and we're going to
select a count recall that in the count function you can pass in anything because it's just counting
the number of rows which is independent of the columns and then will that say see these facilities where
the guest cost is greater than or equal to 10.
Go ahead and run this and he will get back.
There's six facilities if you actually want is the name of those facilities.
You could then just select everything and this would give you all the information of those facilities.
And hey we can see the gas costs twenty five twenty five fifteen five eighty eight and seventy point
five.
All above ten dollars.
OK.
Finally these last couple of questions are going to be the most complicated.
So number eleven is asking us to produce a list of the total number of slots booked per facility in
the month of September 2012.
Produce an output table consisting of facility I.D. and slots sorted by the number of slots.
So lots of stuff going on here.
Let's go ahead and start working through this.
We expect the result is nine rows and there's a little screenshot here of what you would expect to see.
So going to clear this.
So we want to produce a list of the total number of slots booked per facility in the month of September
2012.
So you can do that.
Let's go in and select the rows wrench that in our graph facility I.D. and then we also want to select
the number of slots booked per facility.
So that keyword per facility should basically alert you to the fact that you're going to have to use
a group by statement.
So here we're going to sum the number of slots available.
So some of slots as and if we want to do this we can see as total slots from C.D. bookings and we have
to do this just for September 2012 which means the start time.
So say we're start time is greater than or equal to 2012 09 01 and start time is less than or equal
to 2012 10 01.
If you wanted to you could use a between operator but usually have to be careful of that between operator
and dates because sometimes it will treat it as exclusive or inclusive depending on the system and how
it thinks of the end of a day whether a day starts at zero hundred hours or ends at twenty four hundred
hours.
That could cause some confusion with the between operator and often for the end date.
You have to go one day further into the future.
So keep that in mind if you're trying to do this both the between operator and you were having trouble
see if expanding this beyond just the last day of September 2 as I've shown here the first day of the
tenth of the month.
So October helps you out there.
OK.
So then finally we need to group by facility idea and then we're going to order by the some of slots
just so we can see this in order.
Recall that I can't order by total slots because this alias gets assigned to the very end.
So there's my full query.
Go ahead and run this and I can see here the facility I.D. and I can see the total number of slots open
per facility.
OK.
Well basically total slots booked per facility coming back to the assessment.
Next we want to produce a list of facilities with more than 1000 slots booked and produce an output
table consisting of facility I.D. and total slots sorted by facility I.D. this time.
So they expect the result is five rows should look something like this a facility I.D. and total number
of slots.
So we'll come back to our gentlemen.
This is actually going to look extremely similar except now we want to filter by these some slots so
because we want to filter on something that has an aggregate function on it we can't just use where.
And so we need to use having.
So we're no longer restricted by the month.
So we're going to remove this where statement and we want to still group by facility I.D. but now I'm
going to filter by using having because I'm filtering on some slots so we'll say having these some of
the slots greater than 1000.
And the reason I can't use wear here is because this is a column with an aggregate function being call
on it which means I have to use the having operator to filter on something that's being aggregated.
OK.
And we also wanted to sort by facility idea this time we'll go ahead and run this and we get back those
same results here.
OK go ahead and come back to the assessment test.
The next question on the assessment test is probably one of more complex ones since it's going to actually
involve a join.
And the question is how can you produce a list of the start times for bookings for tennis courts for
the specific date of 2012 9 21 so 21st of September.
So we want to return a list of the start time and the facility name pairings ordered by the time.
So recall that we only want it for the tennis courts and we want their specific start time.
If we come back to PGA I mean go ahead and clear this.
Let's take a look at what's inside the bookings table.
So select everything from C.D. bookings if we run this note here that we have a booking I.D. a facility
I.D. and a start time.
So we have a facility I.D. but we don't actually know whether it's associated with a tennis court or
not for that.
If we come to see that facilities run this we can see here the names tennis court one tennis court two
and are associated facilities.
So we have their facility as 0 and 1.
So we can either use their name or their facility I.D. to filter out just the tennis courts and then
we need to join this with that booking stable in order to actually grab the start time.
So again if we take a look at the bookings table we have the actual start time.
So the things I'm interested in are that start time and then the facility name.
So either tennis court one or tennis court two and we can decide to filter facilities either by facility
I.D. or facility name.
So let's show you one way you can do this.
This one is actually probably one of questions you can do a multitude of ways.
But the first thing we should be doing is selecting those two columns which again if we take a look
here it's the start time and the name.
So we'll say select from C.D. dot bookings the start time and then also select seedy port facilities
not name.
And then we're going to do is select this from C.D. And we'll take the facilities table and do an inner
join
to see these bookings on me scrunch this down a little bit on the facility I.D. column so on C.D. that
facilities facility I.D. is equal to S.D. dot bookings dot facility I.D. it's going to put that on on
the same line.
Just it's a little easier for me to read here.
So if I just run this note that I get back all the start times and all the names.
So now recall that I need to filter this on the start times that are on September 21st and I'm only
looking for the facilities that are these tennis courts so I can either filter by that facility I.D.
or the tennis courts depending which one you prefer.
Let's go home and begin filtering so that we only get those tennis courts.
And just so it's a little shorter I can say where C.D. dot facilities dot facility I.D. in 0 1.
So if I want it this way No I get back only tennis court 1 and tennis court 2.
The other option would be to say facilities name in and here I could write out tennis court one
comma tennis court too.
So if I run this no I get back the exact same results.
So it's really up to you if you prefer filtering by that facility I.T. or the facility name just so
it's a little cleaner all the facility I.D. that way I'm just typing out a 0 and 1 OK so if I run this
so far my facilities are correct but the actual start times are not correct.
So I'm only looking for things that start on September 21st.
So what we can do that is by saying And C.D. that bookings the start time is greater than or equal to
2012 09 hopes 2012 09 the 21st.
So if I just run this that's this gets me a thing past September 21st.
So if I keep burning notice I get twenty second twenty third and so on.
So actually to have a stop time for this.
So then we'll say and C.D. the bookings that start time is less than.
No I'm just saying less than not equal to 2012 09 the twenty second.
So if you run this it's just everything that's on the 21st.
And if you scroll down you can confirm that by just saying twenty first and then to make sure everything
is ordered correctly.
Well we can do is add in one last order by which is ordered by C.D..
The bookings that start time run that and he we get back our final result which is the start time and
then the name tennis court 1 or tennis court 2 for everything that was on September 21st.
OK so one final question.
Come back to the assessment test and that is how can you produce a list of the start times for bookings
by members named David Farrell.
So let's go ahead and do that come back to P. gentlemen going to say select.
And here we're really just interested in let's say Head Start Time from C.D. bookings.
We're going to do an inner join.
We have C.D. that members because the members actually hold the names and the bookings holds the booking
information.
And so I just joined this simply on member ideas.
So we'll say members that member I.D. is equal to see these bookings that member I.D..
And if I just run this and let's just select everything first so we can check it out so here I can see
the booking I.D. facility I.D. and the member I.D. And if I scroll down I can see the surname and first
name.
So recall I'm only interested in David Burrell so we'll say where C.D. that members first name is equal
to David and C.D. that members that his surname is equal to all.
Make sure you get the capitalization right there run that and now I can see all the bookings for David
for all I'm actually interested in the start time.
So instead of selecting all the columns I'll say that bookings the start time run that.
And there we go.
OK.
So it's to be three rows.
All right.
That's it for the assessment test.
Please take a look at the Q and A forums if you have any questions on any of those.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.